
Damage system is very much work in progress.
This file is a quick note on how it's intended to work.
this note may be incomplete and out of date at any point. 

The vision for damage was to have some sort of falling sands physics model (without the "falling" and gravity)
the simulation would take a damage fragment with a given mass and velocity and sim it hitting the different materials of the ship.

it does this by using a data array for the ship which is layed out simular to a classic bitmap. 
(see RawBmp class).
the different depths (or colours in a classic bitmap) provide data on the material type the damage fragment is hitting.
r : maps to a damage resistance table. currently only used by armor, (components default to 255 which is stainless steel) 
    and is set in the ui damage viewer (eek! obv was tempory wip for quick test setup.)
    this has a byte ID (red) material hitpoints, and material density)
g : maps to the specific component instance. (ships currently will only be able to have 255 components max.)
b : currently unused
a : is the health of the material at this point. 

An undamaged ship is suposed to have/share a "DamageProfile" of it's design class to save memory. 
    though I don't think this is currently the case. 
    once a ship becomes damaged it's damage profile will be the last frame of the sim. 

Damage fragments are stored in the EntityDamageProfileDB as a list, so the ui can re-create the frames of the sim for the player. 
    (without storing the frames, as that very quickly increases in memory). 

The 3d volume of the ship is converted into a 2d plane (see DamageTools.CreateComponentByteArray())
Currently 1px = 1cm

Intent at some point is to have the damage profile bitmap be a recursivly scaling data array. 
    eg a large undamaged ship might have a pixel = 1m, but as it takes damage, the pixels that are damaged 
    get subdivided into smaller scales. 
    my last attempt at trying to conceptualise the mechanics of how to store this data didn't get far. 

although the ui uses this bitmap to display the ship layout in the ship design, and also to display the damage being dealt,
it's primarily a way to sim the damage, rather than eye candy. 

components currently have a bitmap too which is probibly unneccisary. 
    I don't think it's really used other than to get soemthing for the ship damage profile to copy.
    though maybe having something setup that can deterministicaly create component images would be nifty? 

DamageViewer in the ui is currently mostly a debugging/visial developing tool rather than what the player is supposed to see,
    hence a bunch of code to sim firing different weapons at it and some stuff which should be in the engine. 

